.TH MPDVI 1 "13 March 2001" "University of Arizona"
.SH NAME
mpdvi \- install an MPD program in the verification suite
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmpdvi [ \-option ... ] \fPdir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mpdvi 
installs an MPD program in the MPD verification suite.
It is part of the MPD installation process and is not used by MPD programmers.
.LP
A new directory 
.I dir
is created in the vsuite hierarchy
to hold the program and associated files.
.I dir
may be given as a path relative to vsuite
if the intermediate directories exist.
.LP
.I Mpdvi
prompts for source files and input files.
Enter each of these as a space-separated list.
The list of input files may be empty.
.LP
After the specifications have been entered, the files are copied into
the vsuite hierarchy and the program is compiled and linked.
If no errors are found, it is executed using each
specified input file in turn as standard input.
If no input files are given, it is executed once with input from /dev/null.
Standard output and error files are combined and saved from each run.
A
.B Script
file is created for
.IR mpdv (1).
.LP
.I Mpdvi
normally finds binaries in the source hierarchy.
The
.B \-c
and
.B \-r
options select the production (installed) versions of the
compiler and runtime system respectively;
the
.B \-p
option selects both of these.
.SH FILES
All files are created in
.RI vsuite/ dir.
.LP
.ta 16n
Script	verification script
.br
Compiler.std	compilation messages, if any
.br
xxxxx.std	output from input file `xxxxx'
.SH SEE ALSO
mpdv(1), mpd(1), mpdl(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Mpdvi
lists the MPD system files to be used, and aborts if any are inaccessible.
It checks the accessibility of all source and data files before
copying anything or creating the 
.B Script
file.
.LP
.I Mpdvi
refuses to overwrite a directory with an existing
.B Script
file.
.SH CAVEATS
.I Mpdvi
does not support the full generality of
.I mpdv.
Complex verification scripts must be created manually.
