.TH SRGRIND 1 "24 August 1992" "University of Arizona"
.SH NAME
srgrind \- format SR program for troff
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsrgrind [\-f] [\-n] [\-w] [\-x] [\-d \fIdefs\fP] \
[\-h \fIheader\fP] [\-s \fIsize\fP] [\fRfile ...\fP]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.I Srgrind
formats an SR program for typesetting by
.IR troff (1).
.I Srgrind
actually works by executing
.IR vgrind (1)
with an appropriate set of files and parameters.
.LP
Input is read from the named files, or from standard input if none are given.
The
.I troff
directives are written to standard output.
.LP
.I Srgrind
accepts the following options:
.TP 11
.BI \-d " defs"
Use an alternate
.IR vgrindefs (5)
file instead of the default one inside
.I srgrind.
.TP
.BI \-f
Run in filter mode. 
In this mode,
.I srgrind
passes most input untouched, processing only those lines
delimited by
.B .vS
and
.B .vE
macro calls.
.TP
.BI \-h " header"
Place a header at the top of the page.
.TP
.BI \-n
Don't embolden keywords.
.TP
.BI \-s " size"
Set the pointsize for typesetting.
.TP
.BI \-w
Consider tabs to be spaced every four columns instead of every eight
(works only if supported by
.IR vgrind).
.TP
.BI \-x
Pass
.B \-x
to
.I vgrind
for index processing.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
sr(1), troff(1), vgrind(1), vgrindefs(5), srtex(1)
.SH CAVEATS
.LP
.I Srgrind
is limited by the capabilities of
.IR vgrind .
For example, comments of the form /*...*/ do not nest.
.LP
.I Vgrind
macros can conflict with others when using filter mode.
.LP
.I Srgrind
doesn't function on systems lacking
.I vgrind.
