.TH SRV 1 "24 February 1993" "University of Arizona"
.SH NAME
srv \- verify correct functioning of SR system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsrv [ \-\fRoption ...\fB ] [ \fRdir ...\fB ]\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Srv
executes verification scripts in subdirectories of
the SR verification suite.
It is part of the SR installation process and is not used by SR programmers.
.LP
If one or more
.I dir
arguments are given, testing is restricted to those directories
and descendents;
otherwise the entire suite is searched.
Within each subdirectory, a
.B Script
file directs the verification process.
Each line contains an expected status code followed by a command.
If the command returns an unexpected status, the test fails and
(except for a
.B run
command) the script is abandoned.
Empty lines, and lines beginning with
.BR # ,
are ignored.
.LP
For
.BR sr ,
.BR srl ,
.BR srm ,
.BR srprof ,
.BR srgrind ,
.BR srtex ,
.BR srlatex ,
.BR ccr2sr ,
.BR m2sr ,
and
.B csp2sr
commands,
production or experimental versions are selected according to
.I srv
options, and output is redirected to reserved file names.
A
.B run
command executes
.BR a.out ,
redirecting standard input if a file is named;
output is directed to a related file and the results are compared with
what was expected.
Differences report a failure and disable
.B rm
commands but do not abandon the script.
Other commands are simply executed by the shell with no special handling.
.LP
.I Srv
normally finds binaries in the source hierarchy.
The
.B \-p
option selects instead the production (installed) version of the system.
The options
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-r ,
and
.B \-t
individually select the production versions of the
compiler, linker, runtime system, and other tools
respectively.
.LP
The
.B \-v
option echoes each Script line as it is read.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta 16n
Script	verification script
Compiler.out	compiler output
Linker.out	linker output
Maker.out	makefile maker output
Profiler.out	profiler output
Grinder.out	troff grinder output
Texer.out	TeXer output
Latexer.out	LaTeXer output
CCR.out	ccr2sr output
M.out	m2sr output
CSP.out	csp2sr output
xxxxx.std	expected output from input file `xxxxx'
xxxxx.out	actual output from input file `xxxxx'
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
srvi(1), sr(1), srl(1), srm(1), srprof(1),
srgrind(1), srtex(1), srlatex(1), ccr2sr(1), m2sr(1), csp2sr(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Srv
lists the SR system files to be used, and aborts if any are inaccessible.
Each directory is listed as testing begins.
Any additional messages indicate a test failure.
.SH CAVEATS
.I Srv
does not detect infinite loops.
.LP
A full run starts slowly due to pipeline delays.
.LP
Quoted arguments don't work with the specially recognized commands.
