.TH SRVI 1 "8 April 1992" "University of Arizona"
.SH NAME
srvi \- install an SR program in the verification suite
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsrvi [ \-option ... ] \fPdir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Srvi 
installs an SR program in the SR verification suite.
It is part of the SR installation process and is not used by SR programmers.
.LP
A new directory 
.I dir
is created in the vsuite hierarchy
to hold the program and associated files.
.I dir
may be given as a path relative to vsuite
if the intermediate directories exist.
.LP
.I Srvi
prompts for source files and input files.
Enter each of these as a space-separated list.
The list of input files may be empty.
.LP
After the specifications have been entered, the files are copied into
the vsuite hierarchy and the program is compiled and linked.
If no errors are found, it is executed using each
specified input file in turn as standard input.
If no input files are given, it is executed once with input from /dev/null.
Standard output and error files are combined and saved from each run.
A
.B Script
file is created for
.IR srv (1).
.LP
.I Srvi
normally finds binaries in the source hierarchy.
The
.B \-c
and
.B \-r
options select the production (installed) versions of the
compiler and runtime system respectively;
the
.B \-p
option selects both of these.
.SH FILES
All files are created in
.RI vsuite/ dir.
.LP
.ta 16n
Script	verification script
.br
Compiler.std	compilation messages, if any
.br
xxxxx.std	output from input file `xxxxx'
.SH SEE ALSO
srv(1), sr(1), srl(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Srvi
lists the SR system files to be used, and aborts if any are inaccessible.
It checks the accessibility of all source and data files before
copying anything or creating the 
.B Script
file.
.LP
.I Srvi
refuses to overwrite a directory with an existing
.B Script
file.
.SH CAVEATS
.I Srvi
does not support the full generality of
.I srv.
Complex verification scripts must be created manually.
